---
title: Simplicity
menu_name: '1. 原则 - 简洁'
---

Clutter is the disease of American writing. We are a society strangling in unnecessary words, circular constructions, pompous frills and meaningless jargon.
Who can understand the clotted language of everyday Amer.ican commerce: the memo, the corporation report, the business letter, the notice from the bank explaining its latest "simplified" statement? What member of an insurance or medical plan can decipher the brochure explaining his costs and benefits? What father or mother can put together a child's toy from the instruc.tions on the box? Our national tendency is to inflate and thereby sound important. The airline pilot who announces that he is presently anticipating experiencing considerable precipitation wouldn't think of saying it may rain. The sentence is too sim-ple—there must be something wrong with it.
But the secret of good writing is to strip every sentence to its cleanest components. Every word that serves no function, every long word that could be a short word, every adverb that carries the same meaning that's already in the verb, every passive con.struction that leaves the reader unsure of who is doing what— these are the thousand and one adulterants that weaken the strength of a sentence. And they usually occur in proportion to education and rank.
During the 1960s the president of my university wrote a let.ter to mollify the alumni after a spell of campus unrest. "You are probably aware," he began, "that we have been experiencing very considerable potentially explosive expressions of dissatisfac.tion on issues only partially related." He meant that the students had been hassling them about different things. I was far more upset by the president s English than by the students' potentially explosive expressions of dissatisfaction. I would have preferred the presidential approach taken by Franklin D. Roosevelt when he tried to convert into English his own governments memos, such as this blackout order of 1942:
Such preparations shall be made as will completely obscure all Federal buildings and non-Federal buildings occupied by the Federal government during an air raid for any period of time from visibility by reason of internal or external illumination.
"Tell them," Roosevelt said, "that in buildings where they have to keep the work going to put something across the windows."
Simplify, simplify. Thoreau said it, as we are so often reminded, and no American writer more consistently practiced what he preached. Open Walden to any page and you will find a man saying in a plain and orderly way what is on his mind:
I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, dis.cover that I had not lived.
How can the rest of us achieve such enviable freedom from clutter? The answer is to clear our heads of clutter. Clear think.ing becomes clear writing; one can't exist without the other. It's impossible for a muddy thinker to write good English. He may get away with it for a paragraph or two, but soon the reader will be lost, and there's no sin so grave, for the reader will not easily be lured back.
Who is this elusive creature, the reader? The reader is some.one with an attention span of about 30 seconds—a person assailed by many forces competing for attention. At one time those forces were relatively few: newspapers, magazines, radio, spouse, chil.dren, pets. Today they also include a "home entertainment center" (television, VCR, tapes, CDs), e-mail, the Internet, the cellular phone, the fax machine, a fitness program, a pool, a lawn, and that most potent of competitors, sleep. The man or woman snoozing in a chair with a magazine or a book is a person who was being given too much unnecessary trouble by the writer.
It won't do to say that the reader is too dumb or too lazy to keep pace with the train of thought. If the reader is lost, it's usu.ally because the writer hasn't been careful enough. That care.lessness can take any number of forms. Perhaps a sentence is so excessively cluttered that the reader, hacking through the ver.biage, simply doesn't know what it means. Perhaps a sentence has been so shoddily constructed that the reader could read it in several ways. Perhaps the writer has switched pronouns in mid-sentence, or has switched tenses, so the reader loses track of who is talking or when the action took place. Perhaps Sentence B is not a logical sequel to Sentence A; the writer, in whose head the connection is clear, hasn't bothered to provide the missing link. Perhaps the writer has used a word incorrectly by not tak.ing the trouble to look it up. He or she may think "sanguine" and "sanguinary" mean the same thing, but the difference is a bloody big one. The reader can only infer (speaking of big dif.ferences) what the writer is trying to imply.
10 ON WRITING WELL
is too dumb or too lazy to keep pace with the waitei»le train
of thought. My sympathies are ^ntireJLy with him.^-He'a we».
— chart»•(ffthe reader is lost, it is generally because the writer <of tho article has not been careful enough to keep him on the «proper path,
IThis carelessness can take any number of different foras.
Vi •.
Perhaps a sentence is so excessively long -and cluttered that
the reader, hacking his way through « M the verbiage, simply
doesn't know what^the.writer neans. Perhaps a sentence has
been so shoddily constructed that the reader could read it in
any of £w»-orthroe différent ways. »He>thiri«i ho lenowa what «the writer is trying to eayy but ho'o not ouwq.Perhaps the writer has switched pronouns in mid-sentence, or perhaps he
has switched tenses, so the reader loses track of who is
talking/to whemj or exactly when the action took place. Per.
haps Sentence B is not a logical sequel to Sentence A.— the
writer, in whose head the connection is perfectly clear, has
fou pi'u»ldin§ the missing link. Per.haps the writer has used an important word incorrectly by not taking the trouble to look it up and mnho sure» He may think that "sanguine" and "sanguinary" nean the same thing, but}
yeuy that(the difference is a blood big e.,
( y A ttn only 4*y-te> infer :*«* (speaking of big differ.ences) what the writer is trying to imply.
J Faced withjmeh a-variety ef obstacles, the reader is at first a remarkably tenacious bird. He »ends te blame/ himself-)/6 obviously missed something, he thinhi, and he goes back over the mystifying sentence, or over the whole paragraph,
piecing it out like an ancient rune, making guesses and moving on. But he won't do this for long. jHe will oewt ru» eu» ef patience» V^JThe writer is making him work too hard *^
thaw he should ha»e te work (jand the reader will look for a «rttei^who is better at his craft.
i The writer must therefore constantly ask himself: What am I trying to sayftn «hts sentence? /Surprisingly often, he doesn't know./ -AmTfhen he must look at what he has Jus» written and ask: Have I said it? I» it clear to someone
A Hhe^s ccmififc ween the subject for the first time? If it's not elea»y it is because some fuzz has worked its way into the machinery. The clear writer is a person whe to clear-headed enough to see this stuff for what i t is : fuzz.
i I don't mean te suggest that some people are born clear-headed and are therefore natural writers, whereas
Sff peeple are naturally fuzzy and will »he»efe»» never write well. Thinking clearly is,»w entirely conscious act that the writer mustVweee feretog upon himself, just as i f he were
»u» on any other ktowl Q£ project thatffiflfcfer logic:
adding up a laundry lis t or doing an algebra problem e Good writing doesn't juefr come naturally, though most people obviously think 4e's aa'-caey e* walking» The professional
Two pages of the final manuscript of this chapter from the First Edition of On Writing Well. Although they look like a first draft, they had already been rewritten and retyped—like almost every other page— four or five times. With each rewrite I try to make what I have written tighter, stronger and more precise, eliminating every element that's not doing useful work. Then I go over it once more, reading it aloud, and am always amazed at how much clutter can still be cut. (In later edi.tions I eliminated the sexist pronoun "he" denoting "the writer" and "the reader.")
Faced with such obstacles, readers are at first tenacious. They blame themselves—they obviously missed something, and they go back over the mystifying sentence, or over the whole paragraph, piecing it out like an ancient rune, making guesses and moving on. But they won't do that for long. The writer is making them work too hard, and they will look for one who is better at the craft.
Writers must therefore constantly ask: what am I trying to say? Surprisingly often they don't know. Then they must look at what they have written and ask: have I said it? Is it clear to someone encountering the subject for the first time? If it's not, some fuzz has worked its way into the machinery. The clear writer is someone clearheaded enough to see this stuff for what it is: fuzz.
I don't mean that some people are born clearheaded and are therefore natural writers, whereas others are naturally fuzzy and will never write well. Thinking clearly is a conscious act that writers must force on themselves, as if they were working on any other project that requires logic: making a shopping list or doing an algebra problem. Good writing doesn't come naturally, though most people seem to think it does. Professional writers are constantly bearded by people who say they'd like to "try a little writing sometime"—meaning when they retire from their real profession, like insurance or real estate, which is hard. Or they say, "I could write a book about that." I doubt it.
Writing is hard work. A clear sentence is no accident. Very few sentences come out right the first time, or even the third time. Remember this in moments of despair. If you find that writing is hard, it's because it is hard.